Project Outline

Using a dataset that consists of 3000 lung cancer patients we would like to understand whether some of the known knowledge about lung cancer applies to patients within this hospital in order to understand the kind of effect these factors have on patient death, cancer development and the severity of their cancer.

Problems and transformations:
1. Age could be less than or equal to the number of years someone had been smoking so I removed entries that had this issue due to it being unrealistic
2. Smoking status could say never and there would still be years of smoking entered for that patient. Years of smoking was changed to "0" for entries of this nature
3. Changed the BMI from a number value to a word value based on the standard categorization
4. Added a column to simplify whether someone has cancer or not
5. Unused columns were removed

Insights

1. Lung cancer commonly occurs in older individuals usually past 60 years of age with the average age of lung cancer patients being around 70 years old. This is evident in figure 1. Most of the recorded patients with lung cancer were between the ages of 60 and 89, whereas younger age groups between 25 and 39 made up a smaller number of lung cancer patients within the dataset.

2. Non-smokers can get lung cancer. People who do not smoke are not immune to lung cancer as factors such as air pollution or exposure to second-hand smoke can lead to them developing lung cancer. As seen in figure 2 above, patients who never smoked not only developed lung cancer, but also ranked as the second highest set of patients with lung cancer.

3. Smoking is a leading cause of lung cancer. Smokers make up 85% of lung cancer cases making it one of the most contributing factors to developing lung cancer. This is shown by figure 3 which indicates that 69% of the cancer patients within this dataset are smokers. 

4. Smoking is the leading cause of death from lung cancer. Smoking can cause cancer cells to be more aggressive which often leads to cancer that is harder to treat. As seen in figure 4, smokers not only make up the highest number of lung cancer deaths, but they also make up the highest number of deaths as a result of stage four cancer which is the most severe.

5. Exposure to lethal toxins at work is another major factor that contributes towards developing lung cancer. Elements such as diesel fumes, asbestos and silica are more common in lung cancer patients than many people think and can often be the main cause of lung cancer. Figure 5 shows the amount of lung cancer patients exposed to these gases compared to those who aren't. The difference in proportion shows just how common exposure to these toxins actually is.






